{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue233;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Vaccines Do Not Cause Autism\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/autism/facts.html"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 Autism spectrum disorder (ASD)}}
\f2\i\b0\fs24  is a developmental disability that can cause significant social, communication, and behavioral challenges. Recent estimates from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/autism/addm.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 CDC\'92s Autism and Developmental Disabilities Monitoring Network}} found that about 1 in 54 children have been identified with ASD in communities across the United States. CDC is committed to providing essential data on ASD, searching for causes of and factors that increase the risk for ASD, and developing resources that help identify children with ASD as early as possible.
\f1\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf2 There is no link between vaccines and autism.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf2 Some people have had concerns that ASD might be linked to the vaccines children receive, but studies have shown that there is no link between receiving vaccines and developing ASD. In 2011, an Institute of Medicine (IOM)\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://nationalacademies.org/HMD/Reports/2011/Adverse-Effects-of-Vaccines-Evidence-and-Causality.aspx"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 reportexternal icon}} on eight vaccines given to children and adults found that with rare exceptions, these vaccines are very safe.\
A\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.jpeds.com/article/S0022-3476(13)00144-3/pdf?ext=.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 2013 CDC study [PDF \'96 204 KB]external icon}} added to the research showing that vaccines do not cause ASD. The study looked at the number of antigens (substances in vaccines that cause the body\'92s immune system to produce disease-fighting antibodies) from vaccines during the first two years of life. The results showed that the total amount of antigen from vaccines received was the same between children with ASD and those that did not have ASD.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf2 Vaccine ingredients do not cause autism.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf2 One vaccine ingredient that has been studied specifically is {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.cdc.gov/vaccinesafety/concerns/thimerosal/faqs.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 thimerosal}}, a mercury-based preservative used to prevent contamination of multidose vials of vaccines. Research shows that thimerosal does not cause ASD. In fact, a 2004\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://nationalacademies.org/HMD/Reports/2004/Immunization-Safety-Review-Vaccines-and-Autism.aspx"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 scientific reviewexternal icon}} by the IOM concluded that \'93the evidence favors rejection of a causal relationship between thimerosal\'96containing vaccines and autism.\'94 Since 2003, there have been\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.cdc.gov/vaccinesafety/pdf/cdcstudiesonvaccinesandautism.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 nine CDC-funded or conducted studies pdf icon[PDF \'96 357 KB]}} that have found no link between thimerosal-containing vaccines and ASD, as well as no link between the measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine and ASD in children.\
Between 1999 and 2001, thimerosal was removed or reduced to trace amounts in all childhood vaccines except for some flu vaccines. This was done as part of a broader national effort to reduce all types of mercury exposure in children before studies were conducted that determined that thimerosal was not harmful. It was done as a precaution. Currently, the only childhood vaccines that contain thimerosal are flu vaccines packaged in multidose vials. Thimerosal-free alternatives are also available for flu vaccine. For more information, see the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.cdc.gov/vaccinesafety/concerns/thimerosal/timeline.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 Timeline for Thimerosal in Vaccines}}.\
Besides thimerosal, some people have had concerns about other\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/vac-gen/additives.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 vaccine ingredients}} in relation to ASD as well. However, no links have been found between any vaccine ingredients and ASD.\
\'a0\
}