{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue233;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do Vaccines Cause Autism?\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 The research is clear: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.webmd.com/vaccines/default.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 Vaccines}} don\'92t {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.webmd.com/brain/autism/autism-topic-overview"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 cause autism}}. More than a dozen studies have tried to find a link. Each one has come up empty. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf2 MMR Vaccine Controversy\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf2 The debate began in 1998 when British researchers published a paper stating that the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.webmd.com/children/vaccines/measles-faq"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 measles}}-{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.webmd.com/children/ss/slideshow-childhood-illnesses-to-know"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 mumps}}-{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.webmd.com/children/tc/rubella-german-measles-topic-overview"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 rubella}} (MMR) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.webmd.com/children/healthtool-childhood-immunizations-guide"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 vaccine}} caused {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.webmd.com/brain/autism/default.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 autism}}. The study looked at only 12 children, but it received a lot of publicity. At the same time, there was a rapid increase in the number of kids diagnosed with the condition.\
The paper\'92s findings led other doctors to do their own research into the link between the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.webmd.com/children/vaccines/measles-mumps-and-rubella-mmr-vaccine"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 MMR vaccine}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.webmd.com/brain/autism/ss/slideshow-autism-overview"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 autism}}. At least 12 follow-up studies were done. None found any evidence the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.webmd.com/children/vaccines/immunizations-vaccines-power-of-preparation"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 vaccine}} caused autism.\
An investigation into the 1998 study also uncovered a number of problems with how it was conducted. The journal that published it eventually retracted it. That meant the publication no longer stood by the results.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 There were other problems, too. For example, investigators learned that a lawyer looking for a link between the vaccine and autism had paid the lead researcher more than \'a3435,000 (equal to more than a half-million dollars).\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf2 Thimerosal Controversy\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf2 A year after the British study, fears about a possible vaccine-autism link shifted from MMR to a substance used in some children\'92s vaccines. It was called thimerosal, and it contained mercury. That\'92s a metal that\'92s harmful to the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.webmd.com/brain/picture-of-the-brain"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 brain}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.webmd.com/urinary-incontinence-oab/picture-of-the-kidneys"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 kidneys}} at high levels. Doctors used thimerosal to prevent the growth of bacteria and fungi in vaccines.\
There was no evidence that the small amount used in the medicines caused harm. Still, it was taken out of most children\'92s vaccines by 2001 at the urging of the American Academy of Pediatrics and the U.S. Public Health Service.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 To see if thimerosal was linked to autism, researchers studied children who received vaccines that contained it. They compared them to kids who received vaccines that didn\'92t. The CDC conducted or paid for nine different studies looking at thimerosal and autism. It found no link.\
What\'92s more, autism diagnoses continued to rise after vaccine makers took thimerosal out of almost all childhood vaccines. (Today, trace amounts of it remain in the vaccines to protect against {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.webmd.com/vaccines/tdap-vaccine-for-adults"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 diphtheria}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.webmd.com/children/vaccines/understanding-tetanus-basics"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 tetanus}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.webmd.com/children/guide/whooping-cough-symptoms-treatment"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 pertussis}}, known as DTaP and DTaP-Hib.)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf2 What About All Vaccinations Combined?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf2 Researchers have also looked to see if all the vaccines required before age 2 somehow together triggered autism. Children receive 25 shots in the first 15 months of life. Some people feared that getting all those shots so early in life could lead to the development of autism.\
But the CDC compared groups of children who received vaccines on the recommended schedule and those whose vaccines were delayed or didn\'92t get them at all. There was no difference in the autism rate between the two groups.\
In 2004, the Immunization Safety Review Committee of the Institute of Medicine published a report on the topic. The group looked at all the studies on {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.webmd.com/a-to-z-guides/tc/autism-and-vaccines-topic-overview"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 vaccines and autism}}, both published and unpublished. It released a 200-page report stating there was no evidence to support a link between {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.webmd.com/children/vaccines/video/pediatrician-on-autism-vaccine-connection"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 vaccines and autism}}.\
}