{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue233;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
When parents choose not to vaccinate: Risks and responsibilities\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.caringforkids.cps.ca/uploads/handout_images/CFK_tearsheet-ENG(post).pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Click here for a printable PDF version}}\
Parents are responsible for their child\'92s health and well-being, including protecting them from vaccine-preventable diseases. The Canadian Paediatric Society urges\'a0
\f0\b all
\f1\b0 \'a0children to receive routine vaccinations and\'a0an {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.caringforkids.cps.ca/handouts/influenza_vaccine"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 annual influenza (flu) vaccine}}, unless there is a medical reason not to.\
If you choose not to vaccinate your child you should understand the risks. You need to know how to make it less likely that your child gets\'a0an infection or spreads disease to others.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf2 Protecting your child\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf2 Infant and childhood vaccines prevent diseases that can be serious and even deadly. Some examples:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.caringforkids.cps.ca/handouts/measles"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul Measles}}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 can cause brain swelling, which can lead to brain damage or death.\
\ls1\ilvl0\cf3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.caringforkids.cps.ca/handouts/mumps"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul Mumps}}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 can cause permanent deafness.\
\ls1\ilvl0\cf3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.caringforkids.cps.ca/handouts/meningococcal_diseases"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul Meningitis}}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 can also lead to permanent deafness or brain damage.\
\ls1\ilvl0\cf3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.caringforkids.cps.ca/handouts/5-in-1-or-6-in-1-vaccine"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul Polio}}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 can cause permanent paralysis.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Any child can be exposed to these infections. While avoiding contact with sick people is useful, infections like measles can also spread through the air. Your child may come in contact with people are carrying germs, even if they don\'92t seem sick.\
There are no treatments or cures for diseases like measles, mumps and polio. The only proven way to protect your child is with vaccines.\'a0\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf2 Protecting others\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf2 Delaying or refusing some or all vaccines for your child puts his health and life at risk. It also risks the health of other people. Those most at risk include:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
People with weakened immune systems due to other diseases or medications they are taking.\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
People with chronic medical conditions like lung, heart, liver, kidney disease or diabetes.\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Newborn babies, who are too young to be vaccinated against most diseases.\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The elderly, who may be at higher risk of complications from diseases.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Communities depend on high immunization\'a0rates to keep vaccine-preventable diseases from spreading. When more people are immunized, there is less risk for everyone. The more parents that choose to not vaccinate their children, the greater the risk that infection will spread in the community.\
If you choose not to fully vaccinate your child, follow these steps:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
If your child is sick and you call or visit a health care provider, immediately tell office staff and the doctor that your child is not vaccinated (whether for some or all vaccines). They will consider the possibility that your child has a vaccine-preventable disease, which may affect what tests they do. If your child has a vaccine-preventable disease, precautions can be taken so that the disease does not spread to others.\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Always keep vaccine records accessible so that you can report which vaccines your child has received, if any.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf2 You choose not to vaccinate your child, and a vaccine-preventable disease is active in your community\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Consider changing your mind and protecting your child with a vaccine. Talk to your child\'92s doctor or to someone at a public health clinic.\
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Your child may be asked to stay away from school, child care or other organized activities. You will be advised when it is safe for your child to return. Be prepared to keep your child home for up to several weeks.\
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Learn about the disease and how it spreads, although it may be impossible to avoid exposure.\
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Each disease is different. The time between when your child may have been exposed and when he may get sick will vary. Talk to your child\'92s doctor to find out when your child is no longer at risk of coming down with the disease.\
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
If you know that your child has been exposed to a vaccine-preventable disease, learn what symptoms to look for and get urgent medical care if these develop.\
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Follow recommendations to separate your child from others, including family members \'96 especially newborn babies, the elderly and people with weakened immune systems or chronic diseases.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf2 Tetanus: Vaccination is the best protection\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.caringforkids.cps.ca/handouts/5-in-1-or-6-in-1-vaccine"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul Tetanus}}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 (also called lockjaw) is a serious disease caused by germs found in the soil. There is no \'93community protection\'94 against tetanus. It does not spread from child to child. If your child is not vaccinated against tetanus, he is at risk.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Even a minor cut or wound that has a tiny bit of soil in it can cause an infection. Over 10% of children and adults who get tetanus will die, even with the best intensive care.\
\ls5\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Over half of those who get tetanus have no history of a major cut or injury, so if your child becomes sick, make sure the doctor knows right away that she is not vaccinated. If your child has not received at least 3 doses of tetanus vaccine and has a major cut or injury, she should be given a special blood product called \'93tetanus immune globulin\'94 as soon as possible to prevent tetanus.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf2 Travelling without vaccination\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl0
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
When travelling to another country, you and your family may be at risk for vaccine-preventable diseases. These may include diseases for which vaccines are not routinely given in Canada.\
\ls6\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Learn about {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://travel.gc.ca/travelling/health-safety/vaccines"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 possible infection risks}} where you\'92re going. In many countries, vaccination rates are lower than in Canada. This means you may be exposed to infections that are rare in Canada.\
\ls6\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
If your child gets sick, she may not receive the same quality medical care she would get at home. Consider having your child vaccinated before travelling to such countries.\
\ls6\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Children with vaccine-preventable diseases may be refused permission to travel by public transport (air, train or bus).\
}