{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue233;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The Truth About Vaccines\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf2 \uc0\u8201 \u8194 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.choc.org/programs-services/infectious-disease/"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Learn more about infectious diseases}}
\f1 \

\f2 \uc0\u8201 \u8194 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.choc.org/wp/wp-content/uploads/2015/02/CHOC_02-07-2015_vaccines.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Download a PDF of this Article}}
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 VACCINES SAVE LIVES\
Vaccines expose the body to a weakened form of a disease, which allows the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.choc.org/health-topics/kids-immune-system/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 immune system}} to build defenses against it. \'93Vaccines can prevent serious illness and death from so many diseases that used to kill hundreds of thousands of children before we had vaccines, and still continue to do so in places where they don\'92t have vaccines. As the diseases have become less common, we have forgotten how serious and dangerous some of these illnesses can be,\'94 says {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://providers.choc.org/findadoc/index.cfm?id=P00348&pid=72&d=Jasjit-Singh"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Dr. Jasjit Singh}}, an infectious disease specialist at CHOC.\
DEBUNKING THE MYTHS\
Some parents do not vaccinate their children, believing myths that vaccines are dangerous or cause disorders like {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.choc.org/health-topics/kids-autism/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 autism}}. Parents also cite concerns that too many vaccines are given at once. Despite much research, there is no scientific evidence that vaccines are dangerous, cause autism or overload the immune system. Every day, a healthy baby\'92s immune system successfully fights off millions of germs. Antigens are parts of germs that cause the body\'92s immune system to go to work. \'93What often happens is a parent talked to a friend who planted a seed of doubt in their mind. They want to look into it further, and meanwhile hold off on vaccines. I would like to remind parents that not vaccinating and delaying vaccines is dangerous,\'94 says Dr. Singh.\
PROTECTION FROM\'a0MANY DISEASES\uc0\u8232 \'93Vaccination is an ongoing, important part of your medical care. Vaccination is a lifetime preventative medicine tool that we have,\'94 says Dr. Singh. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the American Academy of Pediatrics and the American Academy of Family Physicians all recommend that children get vaccinated against chicken pox, polio, hepatitis A and B, measles, mumps, rubella, diphtheria, tetanus, influenza (the flu), and pertussis (whooping cough), among other diseases. Adults should be vaccinated against illnesses like the flu, notes Dr. Singh, and certain vaccines are encouraged for pregnant women, especially the whooping cough and flu vaccines, she adds.\
}