{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 We face a crisis of unprecedented proportions\
We are facing an unprecedented crisis in our nation and the Western world. There has been a meteoric rise in the rates of autism, developmental delays, learning disabilities, allergy, asthma, autoimmune diseases and more in the way of chronic and debilitating diseases. And tragically, we are losing a large portion of the next generation of children to neurological, neurodevelopmental, behavioral and learning disabilities. According to statistics released by the CDC in 2008, 1 in 6 children suffered from either autism or some form of developmental problem! (https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/developmentaldisabilities/about.html) Now 10 years later, given the increasing prevalence and current estimates, that number may be as high as 1 child in 4! And, those statistics show that these developmental delays including behavioral and learning disabilities are continuing to increase at alarming rates.And, all of the learning and behavioral conditions have a prevalence much higher in boys. In addition, all across the spectrum, the rates of allergy, asthma and autoimmunity are nearing epidemic proportions. Autism Spectrum Disorder (Autism), is just one of those many conditions that are affecting our children. But it is the condition that get most of the press. The incidence of autism is rising sharply and unabated. The 2014 CDC estimates were that 1 in 45 children were autistic (NHIS data*), up from 1 in 150 in 2002 (ADDM Network **), just 12 years prior. When the 2018 statistics come out in less than 2 years, it is expected that the rate of autism may be as high as 1 in 25 children, with approximately 4 times as many boys than girls being affected. That means that approximately 1 in 5 boys will be on the autism spectrum!! Many experts believe at the current trajectory, somewhere between the years 2025 and 2032, 1 in 2boys will be autistic!! And, that is not even considering the crippling rates of other intellectual disabilities just mentioned.THIS IS COMPLETELY UNACCEPTABLE! This chart published in Nature- the International Weekly Journal of Science, shows the rate increases up to 2011, when the rates were 1 in 68. As just mentioned, the rates as of 2014 were 1 in 45 and the projections for when the 2018 rates come out may be as high as 1 in 25.\

\f1 \
\
\

\f0 4 What would this mean for our society? It is estimated that it takes between two and three million dollars to raise an autistic child. Think about the current cost economically. And as the proportions of autistic children continue to increase, the cost over the next thirty years of raising millions of young people on the spectrum will be astronomical! We cannot sustain it. Just doing some simple math let\'92s take just boys, since the prediction of 1 in 2 becoming autistic is only for boys. There were approximately 2-million boys born in the U.S. in 2017*.If we reach a point (heaven forbid), where 1 in 2 boys are autistic, conservatively using today\'92s birth numbers of 1 million boys, and the current cost of an estimated of $60,000 annually to raise an autistic child to age 40, t hat amounts to an annual expenditure of 60 billion dollars at today\'92s cost! Add girls in to the equation and that expenditure climbs to around 80 billion dollars (since autism is 3-4 times more prevalent in boys, fewer girls are affected). Over 40 years (without inflation factored in), that amounts to 3 trillion, 200 billion dollars (3,200,000,000,000)! That is very close to the nearly 3 trillion 400 billion dollars in TOTAL health care expenditure FOR ALL U.S. health care spending in 2017***. This will be an economic disaster! It gets worse. In addition, consider that as the years elapse, most likely many more boys and girls will be born annually than at the current birth rates. And, when the increased costs of caring for an autistic child, (i.e. medical and educational/vocational costs) increase, which we know they will, all of a sudden that huge spending number we just considered could be twice as high. And, to make matters even worse, this calculation doesn\'92t even take into effect the added costs involved for children with other neurodevelopmental delays, learning or behavioral problems, chronically ill with allergies, asthma and autoimmune disorders.In addition, can you imagine the impact on us socially, on militarily readiness and on the affected children and families themselves? What about our intellectual capacity to churn out scientists, inventors and business innovators for the years to come? The clock is ticking. Left unchecked, it is truly a doom and gloom scenario. We must get to the bottom of it and we must do it now! And by sharing this document, you can be a part of the driving force to make this happen.}